oh this is the second episode we're
doing of like I PFS and coffee where I'm
going to sit here and make coffee and
talk about something a few vest related
this week I'm going to talk about the
files API and more like past that like
the NFS implementation and file system
in general also I'm going to be making
coffee and what's called connects it's a
type of for over device if anybody's
ever used those it's pretty good it's
what I do pretty much every day for
coffee um I have water boiling and I
already grabbed some beans so while
that's happening I will start talking
about what the file API is so in Dubbo
40 we have this new thing called I PFS
files command you can type and it
provides a lot of unix-like commands to
you so you can do move copy read write
files make their nls and it deals in I
PFS like objects but it abstracts a lot
of V like busywork away from you of
dealing with hashes and worrying about
like updating chains so if I change a
file i also have to update its directory
in the directory about it and above that
and the files AP guy just abstracts all
that way for you and it just does it so
it's really cool it's also moderately
fast um we recently switched I PFS add
to use this in code in the back end and
it got like way faster like at least a
hundred times faster for most workloads
which is a pretty good gain in my book
um the way it works underneath is it
implements essentially just a virtual
file system each node in memory has its
mercald egg note tied to it um and then
when you add children to it it will add
children to the virtual node and then
when it gets flushed those children get
um synced & mashed and then that hash
gets added to the nodes virtual bit and
then written to a stag node synced and
hashed and then all the way up the chain
and that's only only happens as
so you know there's a lot of opportunity
to see can write multiple files under
directory and then only have to sync up
once which results in only hashing you
know the trio once instead of twice
saves us a lot of time um so there's
lots of opportunities for different
applications to be built on this um the
one thing I'm working on kind of as a
sign of project because i'm not getting
javascript is a JavaScript face web file
explorer so looks just like you know you
click on Windows Explorer open it up
your files pop up just like that but for
I PFS and it works ish right now um it's
really ugly because I have no design
skills whatsoever i'm pretty sure it's
black white and gray and but it's the
cool thing about it is that you're able
to like in the web browser be able to
click your files you're able to drag
files into it add them to it able to
drag directories into it navigate
through directories you know traverse
this file system that is on I PFS and
just looking to provide you know some
sort of cool interface to view your
files which is something we don't quite
have yet like you know we have the fuse
the fuse interface but that's not
mutable except for I pns um which is
slightly slightly more than you want for
just like managing a couple files on
your file system so that um that's kind
of like what it is the history behind it
is like i wanted so i started building
this and it started with a lot more
features than it has now um quite a bit
of future creek but there's a lot of
ideas there that I really wanted wanted
to work you know work towards and I
still want to work towards um in the
future and the idea is like we have this
this file system space and the file
system space is like agnostic um and
then you can mount I PFS things into us
like I say mount this I PFS hash onto a
path in this file system and then you
can CD into it and then you be in I PFS
you can also you could also then
mountain I pns hash into the filesystem
at some point and then you could CD into
it and change files there
it would automatically note of that I
pns entry and then you could do things
like um Mount like even make pipes was
the really cool thing I wanted so you
can come make pipe in your file system
and it would produce a hash and anybody
else who was able to cat that hash or
write to that hash communicate with the
same people so if I counted the hash and
David wrote to the hash then I would see
his dick data over the network
seamlessly and that's one of the ideas I
have and there's a lot of different
things you can do with kind of like a
Jenner general file system um like this
that's completely adaptable to whatever
you want um water's boiling
okay this is the fun part who cares
about I PFS stuff right just want to
watch coffee so that filter and put it
in actually it's pretty cool looking
like square shaped and this little
triangle diamond thing filter out and
that take your beans and see kind of
want to show this part time to put my
laptop over here maybe yeah that'll do
so the beans are in there the first
thing you do is actually like very
important part is you get them just a
little bit wet and then if you probably
want to see it because my you know
webcam is pretty bad but the beans will
start to like like puff up and rise and
stuff and it's called a bloom and this
is like all the co2 in the beans like
leaving and it has the effect of kind of
making it all expand also smells amazing
um so why you let that happen for about
30 seconds and then what you do is oh my
god who guessed or water into it and
kind of just fill it up or circularly
until it gets to the top of the base
type thing so I don't know what it's
really called chemex and then once it
hits the top I just pour slowly into the
middle until I've poured my water
through and this makes about three cups
like not like cups the measuring cups
but free like cups how much I drink cups
of coffee and
pretty quick easy to clean up all you do
is take this little paper filter right
here and toss it then it's pretty much
clean it's made out of like a nice class
that doesn't stain or anything so I've
really never had to actually heavy-duty
clean it and that's it I just wait for
it to know my laptop is needing to find
a new home all right it was much faster
than a last time so now that was I was
just my daily like that's what I do
every morning to make coffee or rather
what my roommate does when he wakes up
before I do um so yeah back to the I PFS
files and NFS stuff so the current
implementation is like the based score
concepts of what we need and then later
on we're going to take what we have here
and build it into a more general like
single file system with you know really
cool global pathing features which is
really what um one is a huge fan of is
having calves be able to describe
anything so like you can say like / as /
ssh a host you know maybe a port or
whatever and then / something /
something so you're building these paths
through all these different transports
and pads and file systems go hand in
hand so if you build that type of thing
that wants thinking of into a file
system you're going to get a lot of
really interesting things and honestly
it's something i don't even know to
expect once we get there it's just kind
of so abstract and out there but it's
also very close and attainable it's just
going to take probably another few
months of churning through work to get
it something like that working so the
ffs files api right now is being used to
do a couple cool things the biggest one
right now is
what's davids working on is the registry
mirror it's taking all of I all of NPM
all the packages and everything and
storing it on I PFS and then every
single user can open up the registry
mere program run there I PFS Damon and
then it will you'll be able to install
packages from your local Damon all the
way oh three ifs and all three I PFS
files ap I feel like David really wants
to say something right now because I'm
probably watching this did you want to
like yank whom I show you just had an
idea and see we are really know like
some sister for the files API and it has
to be smart enough to know when to
update the mic like note that and are
above in the chain which I'm we change
the file in the subdirectory and will we
have or every thought about something
like a hook where we can say each time
this directory changes because there is
some file a data file changes and you
need just update this I p NS record
directly so that we don't have to like
force a MF s to flush in order to
appetite that I Dennis so that was
actually um that exact functionality was
in the earlier versions of the files API
that I had written um we took a lot of
that out because it was one PR and it
was massive and one and I we're trying
to figure out what this should look like
for the first iteration so that behavior
is like definitely planned and it's
definitely something that's going to be
there so we just got to get around
implementing it put it in the queue of
things to do and hope it gets the top
quickly ah but yeah that's like other
way ahead it was you could mount so that
there was like an IP FS back then it was
called NFS mount and that would accept a
it except a couple arguments one of them
was like the thing you're mounting and
one of them was a publish command and so
that's a shell command that gets called
when um
when that node needs to be updated so
when you know when all the changes below
it bubble up to that node the command
that you specify their what was called
and then it would do things so you know
for I pns you would mount the IP NS
thing and then the update command would
be I PFS named publish the hash and in
other cases you could just write it to
it you know right it to your database or
you could you know message somebody
because of it and so there's a lot of
lot of really cool applications you get
when you allow that to be really generic
for myself that's really cool so what
other questions bring into the
discussion is that like we have been
like posting here and there about like
changing like removing cat and that from
my cassock or comment and I just using
the files one so I always using I PFS
files care because miles ads and make
those the primary captain f but that
also like that definitely gives users
something way more familiar than what I
with what they I used with normal file
systems but also means that like
everyone will start creating directories
inside the IFS repos that I might not be
expecting from the very right because
then I cannot add two files in from the
same directory without having them as
separate well in I prefer so one thing I
was thinking of similar lines like I
don't know if we should take IPS add and
cat out of like the main you know main
command but it's like similar vein what
I'm thinking when you run I give us add
in it does you know it pins afterwards
right but everybody always loses track
of the things that they end so my idea
is every time you add it can okay this
isn't my idea somebody in IRC mentioned
this and brought it up I mean I thought
was a great idea every time you add it
takes the name the name of the file that
you added and maybe the date or
something
then writes that as entry into the files
API so the files API you have like /
pins / the name of the file date or
whatever and that way it's really easy
just to look in there and remember oh
here all the things i added um I think
that's going to be a great thing to have
because that kind of solves our
long-standing problem of what the hell
did I add and what is this pin um we
could even make pin LS do a little bit
of reverse searching in an MF s or the
files API to actually like grab the
names from there and put them in the
display for pin LS which that's that's
actually pretty cool yep yep and then
also make a lot of things easier first
of all for WI or station to have the way
something where added the network and
therefore end-users will be just like
written I can all understand what they
have had attractive s note they will be
able to delete it they're actually right
because and being something that you
don't remember that you pin it also
purple yeah your local codes unworthy
why it's like right now we use local
storage for storing what we pin through
the web UI and it's like inconsistent
with the CLI and if we switch to the
files API you stuff there then we can
solve that problem pretty pretty cleanly
um just me sorry to ten drop just to be
clear on how to delete would work in
that case right um would delete be still
just unpinning or would we actually have
a way of fully removing the file just
for example i added by accident this
large file and i just want to get rid of
it nah yeah so what we'd have to do
there is we could make delete like you
know in the web UI we could make delete
actually unpin and like delete those
blocks but we would also have to check
to make sure it wasn't pinned by
anything else otherwise you know we're
breaking things so like we can say
delete and then if it removes that pin
and then tries to then
should check the pin set and say hey is
this pendant through anything else and
if it is then we you know give an error
to the user and if not then we can wipe
those blocks from the block store which
I think actually wiping blocks like that
is going to be a good thing kind of
gives users a little more feel for
things happen what I want them to so
yeah files API is pretty cool um pretty
happy with it I know David is too and
you guys have any other questions about
that I don't know if any at the moment
though or anything that I'm up I'm not
like remembering anything that you might
have missed that will be good to bring
up to discussion so yeah I think like
that's the way I can how's the p.i is
like one of the things it enables a lot
of use cases and actually like working
backwards is and I like simple and makes
a lot of sense Express and hit I guess I
clean for my diction is very complicated
though like all the story but mobile
homes yeah the other thing that's kind
of kind of related that I've been
wanting to do um is I wrote some code
for thing called I PFS pipe a while back
and I PFS pipe would basically just a
wrapper around our network layer so you
could listen in on like a service name
and then you could dial up here at a
service name through the CLI and I never
got around to finishing it because our
commands library had a few limitations
around that but there's a PR somewhat
recently to actually fix that and it
looks like it works um so I want to be
able to get that type of functionality
worked in so you can like create a pipe
and then have other people connect to it
because I want to be able to take that
and move it into a file system interface
and how maybe even once we get pub/sub
which that's coming it's going to happen
once we get pub/sub you could have a
pipe that just printed out everything
for pubs up so it could be like that
kind of file type interface
to pub/sub which I like files related so
yeah unless you guys have anything else
to ask his now to discuss is that I
have one question right so far I Pierre
API is going to be released in 0 for 8 1
is 0 for coming just tease everyone and
B is the set of features like done that
will ship 404 for the files API or is
that still work in progress so the files
API right now I have no intentions of
changing its feature set by 0 for 0 by
the time that shifts to go back to your
first question there are a couple small
ish things that I want to get done
before shipping 040 um the first of
which that i can remember off the top of
my head is when we add a file we use a
particular chunking scheme so like we
use a certain layout in a certain block
trunking algorithm I want to take that
information and write it to the root
block of the created file so that in the
future you can use that information to
recreate the exact same day because you
know in the future maybe we changed some
default jumping schemes and Yuri add a
file it's gonna give you different
passion that's weird but if we write the
exact parameters used into the file then
we'll be able to recreate it exactly and
you know provides a lot of cooler
guarantees I really important for us to
give because it changes the file format
and I want that to be in 0 for 0 because
that's kind of like almost a breaking
change but it doesn't break anything it
just changes the hash values of things
so that's one of the things on my list
there's one other don't quite remember
what it is off the top of my head but
we're getting really close we shipped a
UTP support and 040 either yesterday or
the day before so if you're using 040
you can use UDP based transports and it
works and it's pretty cool and um
actually if any of you are watching and
using 040 i definitely recommend you
trying that out and giving me some
feedback on how that's working because
it worked great when i tested it but
maybe it like catches fire in somebody
else's
Peter who knows they probably won't yeah
so 040 I'm hoping we can ship before or
around New Year's just it's kind of like
my hope dozen we're shipping it on 32 32
c 3 last day or what huh you see via the
chaos congress in the corner it's
hacking away on something or chionship
we're gonna ship Jeremy you come into
the coming of the Congress know we got a
ship but yeah I would be so happy if we
can get it out the door by the time 2016
rolls around I'm pretty confident we can
do it too the only real like pinch
points I mean aside from those features
that I want to get our the fs repo
migrations what you're getting close and
then getting the disc type EFS do stuff
up and deployed uh basically the whole
upgrade path and installation path we
want to smooth out before we you know
drop a big change on everybody that
requires a lot of you know migrations
and new things to learn but yeah I think
I'm confident we can get that done and
next what do we have like two or three
weeks what's the date today the 11th
yeah like three weeks ish so yeah
fingers crossed slightly cool so I think
it'll be good for us to keep these talks
like right around half an hour or so so
this is a good good length and thank you
all for watching um enjoy thanks a lot
Cheers Thank You Jeremy